>> Ifill: AUTHORITIES IN
WASHINGTON STATE WARNED TODAY
THE OFFICIAL DEATH TOLL IN THAT
DEVASTATING MUDSLIDE WILL RISE
SIGNIFICANTLY IN THE COMING
DAYS.
TONIGHT, WE HEAR FROM A MEMBER
OF THE NATIONAL GUARD SEARCH AND
EXTRACTION TEAM.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS THURSDAY:
>> WONDERFUL TO MEET YOU.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA AND
POPE FRANCIS MET FACE-TO-FACE
FOR THE FIRST TIME.
AFTERWARDS THE PRESIDENT SPOKE
OF SHARED OBJECTIVES WHILE THE
VATICAN EMPHASIZED THEIR
DIFFERENCES.
>> Ifill: PLUS, INNOVATIVE
STRUCTURES FOR DISASTER VICTIMS.
THAT IDEA EARNED ONE ARCHITECT
THE WORLD'S PREMIER PRIZE IN THE
FIELD.
>> NOTICE MORE MORE FOR THE
PUBLIC OR EVEN MORE SOMEBODY
WHO-- BY NATURAL DISASTERS.
>> I CAN USE MY EXPERIENCE AND
KNOWLEDGE MORE FOR THE GENERAL
PUBLIC, OR EVEN FOR SOMEBODY WHO
LOST THEIR HOUSES BY NATURAL
DISASTER.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE NUMBER OF
DEATHS IN THE WASHINGTON STATE
MUDSLIDE WILL ONLY GET WORSE,
ACCORDING TO OFFICIALS AT THE
SCENE.
WITH AT LEAST TWO DOZEN BODIES
ALREADY COUNTED, BUT AT LEAST 90
PEOPLE STILL MISSING, JEFFREY
BROWN REPORTS THE RECOVERY IS
FAR FROM OVER.
WHAT YOU'RE GOING TO SEE IN
THE NEXT 24 TO 48 HOURS AS
THE MEDICAL EXAMINER OFFICE
CATCHES UP WITH THE
DIFFICULT WORK THAT THEY DO
YOU'RE GOING TO SEE THESE
NUMBERS INCREASE
SUBSTANTIALLY.
>> FIRE CHIEF TRAVIS WARNED
THIS MORNING THEY'RE FAR
FROM DONE FINDING ALL OF THE
DEAD.
BUT HE INSISTED THEY'RE
LOOKING FOR SURVIVORS.
WE'RE GOING TO EXHAUST ALL
OPTIONS.
ALL THESE RESOURCES THAT
WE'VE HAD HERE SINCE
SATURDAY, IF WE JUST FIND
ONE MORE PERSON THAT'S ALIVE,
TO ME THAT'S WORTH IT
>> Brown: IT'S NOW SIX DAYS
SINCE TONS OF MUD BURIED THE
COMMUNITY OF OSO.
THE U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY SAYS
TWO MAJOR SLIDES HIT ABOUT FOUR
MINUTES APART.
NO ONE HAS BEEN FOUND ALIVE
SINCE SATURDAY, WHEN MAC
McPHERSON WAS AMONG THOSE PULLED
FROM HIS SHATTERED HOME.
>> I WAS ALL BALLED UP, BUT THIS
ONE HAND WAS FREE AND I HAD A
STICK, SO I JUST KEPT DIGGING
AND DIGGING WITH THE STICK, AND
I SAW A LITTLE BIT OF LIGHT.
AND I SHOVE THAT SUCKER UP THERE
AND STARTED WAVING IT BACK AND
FORTH.
>> Brown: RESCUERS SAVED
McPHERSON, BUT HIS WIFE, LINDA,
WAS KILLED.
OTHERS WAITED LONGER TO LEARN
THE FATE OF LOVED ONES.
SUMMER RAFFO'S BROTHERS FOUND
HER BODY YESTERDAY STILL IN HER
CAR.
MEANWHILE, AS FAMILIES CONFRONT
THEIR LOSSES, THE SEARCH TEAMS
FACE MORE LONG, SLOW DAYS OF
DIGGING.
>> IT IS SO WET AND MUCKY IT'S
LIKE A SWAMP.
IF WE WERE TRYING TO PUT BIG
MACHINERY OUT THERE, WE'D LOSE
IT.
IT WOULD DISAPPEAR IN THE MUCK.
>> Brown: AND WITH MORE RAIN
FORECAST IN THE COMING DAYS, THE
JOB ISN'T LIKELY TO GET ANY
EASIER.
>> Woodruff: JEFF WILL TALK WITH
A TOP NATIONAL GUARD OFFICIAL
INVOLVED IN THE SEARCH, RIGHT
AFTER THIS NEWS SUMMARY.
THE WHITE HOUSE IS TOUTING A WIN
IN ITS CAMPAIGN TO SIGN UP
AMERICANS UNDER THE NEW HEALTH
CARE LAW.
PRESIDENT OBAMA MADE THE
ANNOUNCEMENT TODAY AS HE
TRAVELED IN ITALY.
HE SAID MORE THAN SIX MILLION
PEOPLE HAVE ENROLLED THROUGH THE
FEDERAL WEB SITE AND STATE
EXCHANGES.
THE DEADLINE FOR SIGNING UP THIS
YEAR IS JUST FOUR DAYS AWAY,
ALTHOUGH EXTENSIONS ARE BEING
GRANTED.
TWO OF THE WORLD'S MOST POWERFUL
PEOPLE-- THE PRESIDENT AND THE
POPE-- CAME TOGETHER TODAY AT
THE VATICAN, BUT THEY EMERGED
WITH DECIDEDLY DIFFERENT TAKES.
MR. OBAMA SAID THEY TALKED
MOSTLY ABOUT POVERTY AND
INEQUALITY; THE VATICAN SAID THE
EMPHASIS WAS ON OBJECTIONS TO
CONTRACEPTIVE COVERAGE UNDER THE
NEW HEALTH CARE LAW.
WE'LL HAVE A FULL REPORT ON THE
PAPAL AUDIENCE LATER IN THE
PROGRAM.
THE SEARCH FOR THE LOST
MALAYSIAN AIRLINER WAS CUT SHORT
AGAIN BECAUSE OF BAD WEATHER
OVER THE SOUTHERN INDIAN OCEAN.
AUSTRALIAN AUTHORITIES PULLED
BACK 11 PLANES WHILE SEVERAL
OTHERS WENT OUT, BUT HAD TO
SUSPEND OPERATIONS AFTER JUST A
COUPLE OF HOURS.
>> THE WEATHER WAS THE
BIGGEST FACTOR TODAY T WAS
DEFINITELY NOT IDEAL FOR.
CEILINGS ARE WERE ANYWHERE
FROM 600 FEET DOWN TO THE
SURFACE WITH VISIBILITY
ANYWHERE BETWEEN FIVE MILES
AND 0.
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE, JAPANESE
SATELLITE IMAGES TAKEN YESTERDAY
SHOWED ABOUT TEN OBJECTS THAT
COULD BE DEBRIS FROM THE PLANE
IN ROUGHLY THE AREA WHERE THE
SEARCH IS UNDER WAY.
OTHER SATELLITE IMAGES RELEASED
BY THAILAND SHOWED ABOUT 300
OBJECTS FLOATING 125 MILES TO
THE SOUTHWEST.
THOSE PICTURES WERE TAKEN ON
MONDAY.
IN THE PHILIPPINES, THE
GOVERNMENT SIGNED A PEACE ACCORD
WITH THE COUNTRY'S LARGEST
MUSLIM REBEL GROUP, ENDING
DECADES OF CONFLICT.
OFFICIALS SAT DOWN WITH LEADERS
OF THE MORO ISLAMIC LIBERATION
FRONT IN MANILA.
THE AGREEMENT THEY SIGNED
CREATES AN AUTONOMOUS MUSLIM
REGION IN THE SOUTH.
UKRAINE DREW NEW INTERNATIONAL
SUPPORT TODAY.
THE U.N. GENERAL ASSEMBLY
CONDEMNED THE REFERENDUM IN
CRIMEA THAT LED TO ITS
ANNEXATION BY RUSSIA.
AND THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY
FUND PLEDGED $18 BILLION IN
LOANS TO UKRAINE OVER THE NEXT
TWO YEARS.
IN KIEV, ACTING PRIME MINISTER
ARSENIY YATSENYUK PRESENTED
PARLIAMENT WITH FINANCIAL
REFORMS THAT HE SAID ARE HARD
BUT NECESSARY.
>> UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT
WON'T ALLOW BANKRUPTCY OF
THE COUNTRY.
THAT'S WHY WE CAME TO THE
PARLIAMENT WITH THIS PACKAGE
OF VERY UNPOPULAR, VERY
DIFFICULT AND VERY TOUGH
REFORMS.
THAT SHOULD HAVE BEEN
CONDUCTED NOT YESTERDAY OR
THE DAY BEFORE YESTERDAY BUT
20 YEARS AGO.
AND WE'RE OFFERING THIS
PACKAGE TO THE PARLIAMENT OF
UKRAINE.
>> Woodruff: BACK IN THIS
COUNTRY, THE HOUSE AND SENATE
EASILY PASSED LEGISLATION GIVING
AID TO UKRAINE AND IMPOSING
SANCTIONS ON RUSSIA.
THE TWO BILLS DIFFER SOMEWHAT
AND WILL HAVE TO BE RECONCILED.
THE HOUSE ALSO VOTED TODAY FOR
ANOTHER TEMPORARY MEDICARE
ANOTHER TEMPORARY MEDICARE FIX.
WITHOUT IT, DOCTORS FACED A 24%
CUT TO THEIR PAYMENTS UNDER THE
PROGRAM, STARTING MONDAY.
THE HOUSE BILL DELAYS THAT
ANOTHER YEAR.
THE SENATE IS EXPECTED TO
CONCUR, BUT NOT BEFORE MONDAY.
THE AIR FORCE HAS FIRED NINE
MID-LEVEL COMMANDERS AND WILL
DISCIPLINE DOZENS OF JUNIOR
OFFICERS IN A CHEATING SCANDAL
AT A NUCLEAR MISSILE BASE.
IT INVOLVED EXAMS FOR MISSILE
LAUNCH OFFICERS AT MALMSTROM AIR
FORCE BASE IN MONTANA.
AIR FORCE SECRETARY DEBORAH LEE
JAMES SUGGESTED TODAY THE
CULTURE THERE ENCOURAGED
CHEATING.
>> I CERTAINLY FELT THAT THE
TESTING AN TRAINING
ENVIRONMENT WAS UNHEALTHY.
THE DRIVE TO ALWAYS SOAR
100% -- SCORE 100% ON EXAMS
WHEN 90% WAS THE STANDARD,
AND THE USE OF THESE SCORES
IN SOME CASES AS THE SOLE
DIFFERENTIATOR ON WITHOUT
GOT PROMOTED AND WHO DIDN'T,
JUST SEEMED INAPPROPRIATE TO
ME.
>> Woodruff: THE AIR FORCE
ANNOUNCED PLANS TO MODERNIZE
THREE NUCLEAR MISSILE BASES AND
UPGRADE TRAINING ON "CORE
VALUES" AND LEADERSHIP.
THE SECRET SERVICE IS ALSO UNDER
NEW SCRUTINY OVER ALLEGED
MISCONDUCT.
THE ISSUE RESURFACED AFTER AN
AGENT TURNED UP DRUNK AT A DUTCH
HOTEL BEFORE PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
VISIT THIS WEEK.
TODAY, THE "WASHINGTON POST"
REPORTED TWO OFFICERS SUSPECTED
OF DRINKING HAD A CAR ACCIDENT
THIS MONTH IN MIAMI DURING A
PRESIDENTIAL VISIT THERE.
IN ECONOMIC NEWS, A BILL
RESTORING JOBLESS BENEFITS FOR
MORE THAN TWO MILLION AMERICANS
CLEARED A PROCEDURAL HURDLE IN
THE SENATE.
IT'S NOT EXPECTED TO SURVIVE IN
THE HOUSE.
AND WALL STREET FAILED TO GAIN
ANY TRACTION.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST FOUR POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,264; THE NASDAQ FELL 22
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 4,151; AND
THE S&P 500 WAS DOWN THREE, TO
FINISH AT 1,849.
THERE'S WORD TODAY THAT JAMES
SCHLESINGER, WHO SERVED
REPUBLICAN AND DEMOCRATIC
PRESIDENTS, HAS DIED.
SCHLESINGER WAS A BLUNT-SPOKEN
INTELLECTUAL WHO BECAME C.I.A.
DIRECTOR AND THEN DEFENSE
SECRETARY UNDER PRESIDENT NIXON.
AFTER NIXON RESIGNED, HE STAYED
AT THE PENTAGON UNDER PRESIDENT
FORD UNTIL BEING FIRED IN 1975.
LATER, UNDER PRESIDENT CARTER,
HE BECAME THE FIRST SECRETARY OF
ENERGY.
JAMES SCHLESINGER WAS 85 YEARS
OLD.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
A FIRSTHAND ACCOUNT OF THE
SEARCH FOR MUDSLIDE SURVIVORS
AND VICTIMS; THE MEETING BETWEEN
PRESIDENT OBAMA AND POPE
FRANCIS; NEW RESEARCH INTO WHAT
MIGHT CAUSE AUTISM; THE
RECRUITMENT OF FOREIGN NURSES;
THE DEBATE IN THE STATES OVER
STRICTER VOTER I.D. LAWS; PLUS,
AN AWARD-WINNING ARCHITECT'S
INNOVATIVE STRUCTURES FOR
HUMANITARIAN RELIEF.
>> Ifill: RESCUE AND RECOVERY
CREWS ON THE GROUND IN
WASHINGTON STATE ARE STRUGGLING
AGAINST TOUGH CONDITIONS AND A
FORECAST OF MORE RAIN.
THE MUDSLIDE HAPPENED ABOUT 50
MILES NORTHEAST OF SEATTLE IN
THE SMALL TOWN OF OSO.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THIS UPDATE.
THE NATIONAL GUARD JOINED
THE EFFORTS EARLIER THIS
WEEK, MASTER SERGEANT CHRIS
MARTIN IS A MEMBER OF THE
SEARCH AND EXTRACTION TEAM,
HE JOINS US FROM ARLINGTON
RIGHT NEAR THE SITE OF THE
MUDSLIDE.
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
WHAT IS THE SITUATION THERE
TODAY, HAS IT GOTTEN ANY
EASIER TO DO THE WORK?
>> YOU KNOW T SEEMS LIKE
WE'VE MADE A LOT OF PROGRESS
FROM YESTERDAY.
WE HAVE TWO TEAMS OF 25
PEOPLE WORKING OUT IN THE
SITE TODAY.
WE'RE DOING MORE OF A
SYSTEMIC GRID SEARCH THROUGH
THE AREA AND THINGS LOOK
LIKE THEY'RE MOVING IN THE
RIGHT DIRECTION.
>> WE'VE BEEN HEARING FOR
DAYS ABOUT THE QUICKSAND
CONDITIONS OF THE SITE AND
THE DIFFICULTIES OF THE
SEARCH.U COPING WITH
THAT?
>> THEY ARE-- THE CONDITIONS
ARE VERY ROUGH.
IF YOU CAN KIND OF IMAGINE,
MUD, THE CONSISTENCY OF
CONCRETE BEFORE IT SETS,
LOTS OF TREES STREWN ABOUT,
REALLY IT'S SLOW GOING,
PAINSTAKING.
WE JUST TAKE OUR TIME TO BE
SAFE AND SEARCH THROUGH THE
DEBRIS FIELD AS CAREFULLY AS
WE CAN TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
DON'T MISS ANYTHING.
>> WE KNOW THERE'S ALWAYS
HOPE OF FINDING SOMEONE
ALIVE STILL.
BUT GIVEN WHAT YOU HAVE SEEN
UP THERE, DO YOU THINK IT'S
POSSIBLE?
>> YOU KNOW, I'M A MAN OF
FAITH.
I BELIEVE IN HOPE.
AND I BELIEVE IN MIRACLES.
I ALWAYS WOULD LIKE TO THINK
THAT THERE'S ALWAYS THE
CHANCE THAT WE MIGHT FIND
SOMEBODY.
>> I UNDERSTAND THAT MORE
LOCAL VOLUNTEERS WERE-- HAVE
BEEN ALLOWED ON THE SITE
TODAY.
THAT'S AFTER OFFICIALS WERE
TRYING TO KEEP THEM AWAY.
WHAT CAN YOU TELL US ABOUT
THAT?
>> I WORKED WITH QUITE A FEW
LOCAL VOLUNTEERS YESTERDAY.
THEY INTEGRATED WITH US
WELL.
THEY HAVE MORE AT STAKE IN
THIS THAN THE REST OF US.
AND THEY GOT IN RIGHT NEXT
TO US AND WERE ASSISTING
MOVING OUT THE DEBRIS.
THEY WERE VERY HELPFUL AND
WE ENJOYED WORKING NEXT TO
THEM.
>> THIS MUST BE TAKING A
TOLL ON THE RESCUE TEAMS UP
THERE, THE HARD SLOG,
SOMETIMES THE BAD WEATHER.
AND THE SLOW PACE.
>> WE WORK IN SHIFTS SO WE
MAKE SURE THAT WE DON'T BURN
OURSELVES OUT TOO QUICKLY.
WE ALSO HAVE SEVERAL
CHAPLINS ONSITE TO TALK WITH
US AS KIND OF A DESTRESS
SITUATION OR DEBRIEF US
AFTER WE COME OFF OF THE
SITE.
SO I THINK THAT WE'RE DOING
VERY WELL AS A WHOLE.
>> AND I PRESUME YOU HAVE TO
TAKE GREAT CARE WITH EVERY
BIT OF GROUND THAT YOU ARE
WORKING WITH.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
IT'S KIND OF LIKE THEY TOOK
A BLENDER TO THE LANDSCAPE
SO YOU COULD FIND ANYTHING
AMONGST THE RUB NELL THERE.
SO WE'RE VERY PAINSTAKINGLY
SEARCHING THROUGH THE AREA
TO FIND ANYTHING THAT MIGHT
BE OF INTEREST.
>> HAVE YOU YOURSELF EVER
DEALT WITH ANYTHING QUITE
LIKE THIS?
>> PERSONALLY, I HAVE NOT,
NO.
THIS IS A NEW EXPERIENCE FOR
ME.
BUT I'M DEFINITELY GLAD TO
BE ABLE TO HELP THE
COMMUNITY OF OSO.
I'M FROM WASHINGTON STATE.
I'M HELPING MY FELLOW
WASHINGTONIANS AND THAT'S
WHAT THE NATIONAL GUARD IS
ALL ABOUT.
>> DO YOU HAVE ANY SENSE AT
THIS POINT ABOUT GIVEN THE
DIFFICULTIES YOU'RE FACING
ABOUT HOW LONG THIS WILL GO
ON S IT DAYS, WEEKS, EVEN
LONGER, PERHAPS?
>> IT IS CERTAINLY GOING TO
TAKE AWHILE.
AND THE NATIONAL GUARD WILL
BE THERE AS LONG AS THE
LOCAL-- THEY NEED UERE TO
BE.
MASTER SERGEANT CHRIS MARTIN
OF THE NATIONAL GUARD,
THANKS SOME OF FOR JOINING
US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
MEETING WITH THE POPE TODAY
FOCUSED INTERNATIONAL ATTENTION
ON TWO OF THE MOST WELL-KNOWN
LEADERS ON THE PLANET, WHAT THEY
SHARE IN COMMON, AND HOW THEY
DIFFER.
THE PRESIDENT'S FIRST-EVER VISIT
WITH POPE FRANCIS BEGAN WITH
POMP AND CEREMONIAL TRADITION AS
HE PROCEEDED THROUGH THE
VATICAN'S APOSTOLIC PALACE.
>> WONDERFUL TO MEET YOU.
>> Ifill: THEIR PRIVATE MEETING
LASTED NEARLY AN HOUR, ALMOST
TWICE AS LONG AS EXPECTED.
IT CAME AS FRANCIS ENJOYS
TREMENDOUS POPULARITY IN THE
SECOND YEAR OF HIS PONTIFICATE.
GOING IN, THE PRESIDENT TOLD THE
POPE HE'S A GREAT ADMIRER.
LATER, AT A NEWS CONFERENCE WITH
ITALY'S PRIME MINISTER, HE
UNDERSCORED THAT SENTIMENT.AS ES
INSIGHTS ABOUT THE IMPORTANCE OF
US ALL HAVING A MORAL
PERSPECTIVE ON WORLD PROBLEMS
AND NOT SIMPLY THINKING IN TERMS
OF OUR OWN NARROW SELF-
INTERESTS.
>> Ifill: BUT THE TWO SIDES
OFFERED STRIKINGLY DIFFERENT
ACCOUNTS OF THE PAPAL AUDIENCE.
MR. OBAMA SAID THEY FOCUSED
LARGELY ON AREAS WHERE THEY HAVE
SIMILAR VIEWS.
>> THE LARGEST BULK OF THE TIME
WAS DISCUSSING TWO CENTRAL
CONCERNS OF HIS.
ONE IS THE ISSUES OF THE POOR,
THE MARGINALIZED, THOSE WITHOUT
OPPORTUNITY, AND GROWING
INEQUALITY.
AND THEN, WE SPENT A LOT OF TIME
TALKING ABOUT THE CHALLENGES OF
CONFLICT AND HOW ELUSIVE PEACE
IS AROUND THE WORLD.
>> Ifill: BY CONTRAST, VATICAN
OFFICIALS EMPHASIZED DIFFERENCES
WITH THE PRESIDENT'S POLICIES.
HIGH ATOP THAT LIST IS THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT MANDATE THAT
REQUIRES EMPLOYERS TO INCLUDE
BIRTH CONTROL COVERAGE.
ANOTHER IS ABORTION.
PRESIDENT OBAMA SUPPORTS
ABORTION RIGHTS, WHILE
THE POPE DEFENDS THE ROMAN
CATHOLIC CHURCH'S ANTI-ABORTION
STANCE.
A VATICAN STATEMENT SAID:
THE PRESIDENT ACKNOWLEDGED
ADDRESSING THOSE SUBJECTS, BUT
WITH THE VATICAN'S SECRETARY OF
STATE AND NOT THE POPE.
>> WE ACTUALLY DIDN'T TALK A
WHOLE LOT ABOUT SOCIAL SCHISMS
IN MY CONVERSATIONS WITH HIS
HOLINESS.
IN FACT, THAT REALLY WAS NOT A
TOPIC OF CONVERSATION.
I THINK HIS HOLINESS AND THE
VATICAN HAVE BEEN CLEAR ABOUT
THEIR POSITION ON A RANGE OF
ISSUES.
SOME OF THEM I DIFFER WITH.
>> Ifill: WHATEVER THEIR
DIFFERENCES, THE TWO MEN WERE
ALL SMILES AS THEY PARTED.
THE POPE MAY TRAVEL TO THE U.S.
IN SEPTEMBER OF NEXT YEAR FOR A
WORLD GATHERING ON FAMILIES IN
PHILADELPHIA.
FOR MORE ON WHAT THE POPE AND
THE PRESIDENT TALKED ABOUT
TODAY, AND WHAT IT MEANS, WE
TURN TO A PAIR OF SCHOLARS:
STEPHEN SCHNECK IS DIRECTOR OF
THE INSTITUTE FOR POLITICAL
RESEARCH AND CATHOLIC STUDIES AT
CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY OF AMERICA;
AND THOMAS REESE IS A JESUIT
PRIEST AND SENIOR ANALYST FOR
THE "NATIONAL CATHOLIC
REPORTER."
WE HEARD THE PRESIDENT SAY
TODAY I AM AN ADMIRER TO THE
POPE.
IS IT ADMIRATION MUTUAL?
>> I THINK IT IS.
THE VISIT WAS DESCRIBED AS
VERY CORDIAL BY THE VATICAN.
THE VIDEO SHOWED THEM
INTERACTING IN A VERY
POSITIVE AND FRIENDLY WAY.
I THINK THIS WAS A MEETING
WHERE TWO PEOPLE, YOU KNOW,
BOTH OF WHOM HAD WALKED THE
SLUMS OF THEIR FAVORITE
PRESIDENT OBAMA AS A
COMMUNITY ORGANIZER IN SOUTH
CHICAGO AND THE POPE AS THE
ARCHBISHOP, BOTH OF THEM
WALKING THROUGH THEIR
FAVORITE CITY BUT THE SLUMS
OF THEIR FAVORITE CITY.
I THINK THEY HAD A LOT IN
COMMON AND A LOT TO SHARE.
>> YET, YET, WE DO PAY
ATTENTION TO THE GULF
BETWEEN THE TWO MEN, HOW
WIDE IS IT REALLY, STEPHEN
SCHNECK.
>> I THINK PROBABLY THE MOST
IMPORTANT THING TO REALIZE
IS THAT AT ONE LEVEL THEY
BOTH SHARE KIND OF AN
INTERESTING VISION.
THAT IS BOTH GENTLEMEN, I
THINK, TAKE THE MEASURE OF
CIVILIZATION TO BE THE
QUALITY OF LIFE FOR THE
POOREST AND MOST VULNERABLE
IN THE WORLD.
AND SO THAT'S SOMETHING THAT
THEY BOTH SHARE.
BUT THE DIFFERENCES ARE
THERE TOO.
ONE COULD ARGUE THAT THE
POPE SAY LITTLE BIT TO THE
LEFT OF THE PRESIDENT ON A
NUMBER OF ISSUES LIKE PEACE
AND ECONOMIC POLICIES AND SO
FORTH.
>> REFUGEES.
>> REFUGEES, FOR EXAMPLE.
BUT OF COURSE THE SOCIAL
ISSUES PARTICULARLY ABORTION
AND, YOU KNOW, THE CONCERN
THAT THE BISHOPS OF THE
UNITED STATES HAVE ABOUT THE
CONTRACEPTION PAN DATE,
THESE ARE ITEMS OF IMPORTANT
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE TWO.
>> Ifill: WHY DO YOU TWO
THINK THAT THE PUBLIC
STATEMENTS WERE SO, SEEM TO
DIFFER SO MUCH FROM EACH
OTHER.
THE VATICAN STATEMENT WAS
KIND OF MORE HARD EDGED THAN
THE PRESIDENT?
>> WELL, THE VATICAN'S
STATEMENT GAVE ALMOST THE
EQUAL NUMBER OF WORDS TO
INTERNATIONAL ISSUES AND TO
THE DOMESTIC PROBLEMS THAT
THE U.S. BISHOPS HAVE WITH
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION.
BUT THAT DONE MEAN THAT THAT
WAS THE WAY THE TIME WAS
DIVIDED UP.
IN POINT OF FACT, IT LOOKS
LIKE THE POPE AND THE
PRESIDENT REALLY DIDN'T TALK
ABOUT THE AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT.
THAT WAS LEFT TO THE
SECRETARY OF STATE.
THE VATICAN SECRETARY OF
STATE.
AND MY GUESS IS THEY
PROBABLY ONLY SPENT ABOUT
FIVE MINUTES TALKING ABOUT
THAT.
THE VATICAN REALLY WANTS TO
FOCUS ON INTERNATIONAL
ISSUES.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME THEY
WANT TO SUPPORT THE LOCAL
BISHOPS WHEN THEY'RE IN
CONFLICT WITH THEIR
GOVERNMENT.
SO THEY BROUGHT US THESE
ISSUES AT THE REQUEST OF THE
U.S. BISHOP.
>> SO THE DISCUSSION ABOUT
THE CONTRACEPTION PAN DATE
TO THE DEGREE, WHEREVER IT
HAPPENED, WAS MOSTLY A
CONCESSION TO THE AMERICAN
BISHOPS?
>> I THINK IT'S QUITE CLEAR
THAT THE VATICAN DOESN'T
WANT TO HAVE ANY KIND OF A
GAP BETWEEN WHAT THE VATICAN
ITSELF IS SAYING AND WHAT
THE AMERICANS OPS ARE
SAYING.
IN OTHER WORDS, THEY DON'T
WANT TO UNDERCUT THE
AMERICAN BISHOPS IN THEIR
CONCERN ABOUT THESE THINGS
SO I PRETTY MUCH AGREE WITH
FATHER REESE ON THESE
THINGS.
THE SHARPER ELBOWS WERE
THROWN DOWNSTAIRS AT THE
STAFF LEVEL MEETINGS.
I THINK THAT THE
CONVERSATION BETWEEN THE
PRESIDENT AND THE POPE WAS
WARM AND FRIENDLY.
>> TO THE EXTENT THAT THESE
TWO MEN HAVE A LOT IN COMMON
AND A LOT DIFFERENT, I
WONDER HOW MUCH THAT WOULD
COME ACROSS.
BOTH OF THEM WERE TREATED
WITH GREAT-- WHEN THEY FIRST
ROSE TO THEIR LEVEL AND
CERTAINLY POPE FRANCIS IS
STILL ENJOYING THAT.
IS THAT SOMETHING THAT
REFLECTS POSITIVELY ON THE
PRESIDENT IN A MEETING LIKE
THIS?
>> WELL, I THINK THAT BOTH
OF THEM HAVE INSPIRED A LOT
OF HOPE IN PEOPLE.
CERTAINLY POPE FRANCIS HAS
GOTTEN, YOU KNOW, PEOPLE
LOVING HIM ALL OVER THE
WORLD.
HIS PUBLIC OPINION RATINGS
ARE THE ENVY OF EVERY
POLITICIAN IN WASHINGTON.
AND OBAMA HAD THAT FOR A
WHILE AND KIND OF LOST IT.
SO THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
BOTH OF THEM HAVE AND
ARE-- YOU KNOW, HAVE IN
COMMON.
>> BUT TO THE EXTENT THAT
THE POPE COMES IN FOR ANY
CRITICISMS AT ALL,
ESPECIALLY AMONG CATHOLICS,
IT'S FROM CONSERVATIVE
CATHOLICS WHO ARE MAYBE NOT
EMBRACING HIS MESSAGE AS
MUCH.
AND THEY ARE THE SAME ONES
WHO PERHAPS ARE NOT
EMBRACING PRESIDENT OBAMA.
>> YEAH, I THINK THAT'S
INTERESTING.
THIS IS A GOOD COMMENT,
CORRECT ANALYSIS.
THE PEOPLE WHO HAVE THE
GREATEST PROBLEMS WITH THE
POPE RIGHT NOW IN THE
CATHOLIC CHURCH ARE THOSE
PEOPLE WHO ARE ALSO HAVING
THE STRONGEST OBJECTIONS TO
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S POLICY
HERE IN THE UNITED STATES.
>> WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT
FOREIGN POLICY AND THAT IS
WHAT THE VATICAN WANTS TO
FOCUS ON, LET'S PICK OFF
SOME OF IT.
IN LEBANON IT'S ABOUT
PERSECUTION OF CHRISTIANS.
>> THAT AND ALSO THE
REFUGEES.
THE POPE IS VERY CONCERNED
ABOUT ALL THE REFUGEES
COMING OUT OF SYRIA,ND
NEED TO CARE FOR THEM.
I MEAN I THINK YOU KNOW,
SPEAKER BOEHNER HAS INVITED
HIM TO SPEAK TO CONGRESS.
I THINK HE WOULD COME TO
CONGRESS AND SAY WE WANT YOU
TO APPROPRIATE MORE AID TO
HELP THESE REFUGEES
YOU KNOW, THEY'RE HUNGRY.
THEY NEED SHELTER.
AND I THINK YOU WOULD BE
VERY STRONG SPEAKING FOR
THAT KIND OF HELP FROM THE
U.S. GOVERNMENT TO HELPING
THESE PEOPLE IN LEBANON AND
SYRIA AND TURKEY.
HE'S ALSO VERY CONCERNED
ABOUT CHRISTIANS.
AND THEY'RE BEING CAUGHT
BETWEEN ALL THESE FIGHTS
THAT ARE HAPPENING IN THE
MIDDLE EAST.
>> WHAT ABOUT THE
ISRAELI-PALESTINIANS, THE
ONGOING GLACKIAL DISCUSSION,
NEGOTIATIONS, WHERE IS THE
POPE IN THAT.
DOES IT MATTER THAT THE U.S.
IS AT THE TABLE BUT IT IS
MOVING VERY FORWARD.
>> THE POPE IS VITTING THE
HOLY LAND IN MAY SO THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT IS HIGH ON
THE VATICAN'S AGENDA RIGHT
NOW.
THE PEACE PROCESS.
IN ALL OF ITS DETAILS.
WHERE EXACTLY THE VATICAN
GOING TO COME DOWN ON THAT I
THINK IS ANYBODY'S GUESS AT
THIS POINT.
CLEARLY THAT INTEREST IS
SOMETHING THAT WAS PART OF
THE CONVERSATION BETWEEN THE
PRESIDENT AND THE POPE.
>> SO WHAT DOES THAT SAY
ABOUT THE RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN U.S. CATHOLICS AND
THE HOPE AND TO THE EXTENT
THAT THE PRESIDENT
REPRESENTS THAT IN A VISIT
LIKE THIS.
WE'VE SEEN PRESIDENTS FOR
DECADES GOD THIS VERY
THING, REPEATED VISITS,
MOSTLY AGREEING AND SMILING
FOR THE CAMERAS BUT --
>> WELL, I THINK AMERICAN
CATHOLICS LIKE ALL AMERICANS
WOULD LIKE TO SEE THE
VATICAN AND THE POPE AND OUR
GOVERNMENT WORKING TOGETHER
TO HELP PEOPLE, FOR
PEACE.
THAT'S, YOU KNOW, I THINK
THAT'S WHAT PEOPLE WANT TO
SEE HAPPEN IN THE MIDDLE
EAST, IN AFRICA, ALL OVER
THE WORLD.
>> IS IT POSSIBLE THAT WE AS
AMERICANS SOMETIMES TAKE
PAPAL STATEMENTS AND WE
TRANSLATE THEM IN AN
AMERICAN CONTEXT IN A WAY
THAT WAS NOT INTENDED?
>> YES.
>> GIVE ME AN EXAMPLE.
>> INEVITICALLY-- INEVITABLY
WHATEVER PAPAL STATEMENTS
ARE ISSUED, FIND THEMSELVES,
YOU KNOW, CAUGHT UP IN THE
MAELSTROM OF AMERICAN
POLITICS.
>> SO FOR INSTANCE, IF YOU
HEARD HIM SAY WHO AM I TO
JUDGE ABOUT GAYS.
>> EXACTLY.
THAT BECAME PART OF
DISCUSSION ABOUT SAME-SEX
MARRIAGE HERE IN THE UNITED
STATES.
SO INEVITABLY THOSE SORTS OF
THINGS DO HAPPEN.
>> IN THE END IS IT IN THE
INTEREST OF BOTH SIDES THAT
THESE ARE TWO SIDES, TO
PAPER OVER DIFFERENCES,
LEGITIMATE POLICY
DIFFERENCES THAT EXIST?
>> WELL, YKNOW, THE
VATICAN HAS DEALT WITH
GOVERNMENTS FOR OVER A
THOUSAND YEARS.
AND IT KNOWS HOW TO CHEW GUM
AND WALK AT THE SAME TIME IT
YOU CAN DISAGREE WITH PEOPLE
BUT YOU CAN ALSO WORK WITH
THEM.
IT'S NOT LIKE THE U.S.
CONGRESS.
YOU KNOW, THE VATICAN WANTS
TO WORK WITH THE UNITED
STATES.
WANTS TO WORK WITH OBAMA.
TO WORK FOR PEACE, AND FOR
DEVELOPMENT AND BETTER
ECONOMY AND YOU KNOW LESS
INEQUALITY, ALL OF THESE
KINDS OF THINGS.
AND THERE'S NO PROBLEM IN
DOING THAT.
>> I THINK ACTUALLY I'M
GOING TO HAVE A SLIGHT
DISAGREEMENT WITH FATHER
REESE ON THIS.
I THINK THAT THE VATICAN
ISN'T INTERESTED IN PAPERING
OVER SOME OF THE
DIFFERENCES.
SOME OF THESE DIFFERENCES
ARE MATTERS OF PRINCIPLES
AND ITS A NOT SOMETHING THAT
REQUEST BE-- THE SMILES AND
COOPERATION, THIS S OF
COURSE, SOMETHING THAT HAS
TO BE DONE AM BUT THE
DIFFERENCES, THOSE
DIFFERENCES REMAIN AND
THEY'RE IMPORTANT FROM THE
VATICAN'S PERSPECTIVE.
>> Ifill: STEPHEN SCHNECK
FROM CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY AND
THOMAS REESE, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> DELIGHTFUL
>> Woodruff: LET'S TURN TO SOME
NEW FINDINGS ON AUTISM,
ESPECIALLY RESEARCH SHOWING
BRAIN CHANGES HAPPENING IN THE
WOMB.
SCIENTISTS COMPARED THE BRAIN
TISSUE OF CHILDREN WHO HAD
AUTISM AND DIED WITH THOSE WHO
DID NOT HAVE AUTISM.
THEY FOUND THAT KIDS WITH AUTISM
HAD DISORGANIZATION IN REGIONS
OF THEIR BRAIN ESSENTIAL FOR
SOCIAL FUNCTIONING, EMOTIONS AND
COMMUNICATION, A CONCLUSION
DRAWN FROM DISCOVERING
DISRUPTIONS IN THESE SECTIONS OF
THE BRAIN.
THOSE GAPS ARE SHOWN HERE IN
PURPLE.
THE NEWS CAME AS THE GOVERNMENT
REVISED UPWARD ITS ESTIMATE OF
THE PREVALENCE OF THE DISORDER
TO ONE OUT OF EVERY 68 CHILDREN
IN THE U.S.
THAT'S MORE THAN THE PREVIOUS
AUTISM ESTIMATE OF ONE OUT OF
EVERY 88 KIDS.
ERIC COURCHESNE IS AN AUTHOR OF
TODAY'S RESEARCH ABOUT THE
BRAIN.
HE'S THE DIRECTOR OF THE AUTISM
CENTER OF EXCELLENCE AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN
DIEGO.
ERIC
COURCHESNE WHAT MAKES THESE
FINDINGS IMPORTANT?
>> IT'S ESPECIALLY IMPORTANT
TO TRY TO UNDERSTAND WHAT IS
CAUSING AUTISM IN ORDER TO
ADDRESS THIS REALLY HIGH
RATE OF ONE IN 68 AUTISTIC
INDIVIDUALS.
THE FOR YEARS IT'S BEEN
REALLY AN EFFORT TO DISCOVER
WHAT STARTS IT.
WE DID THE STUDY T POINTS TO
THE SECOND AND THIRD
TRIMESTER.
AND LITTLE PATCHES OF
CORTICO DISORGANIZED DEFECTS
ARE PRESENT IN FRONTAL
CORTEX AND TEMP ORAL CORTEX,
THE AREAS OF THE BRAIN THAT
ARE MOST IMPORTANT FOR
SOCIAL, LANGUAGE AND
COMMUNICATION FUNCTIONS,
THOSE ARE THE FUNCTIONS
IMPAIRED IN AUTISM.
THE STUDY THAT WE DIDS WITH
A VERY DETAILED ONE, EXAM
BEING THE FINE STRUCTURE OF
CELLS AND LAYERS IN CORTEX
THERE ARE SIX LAYERS IN
CORTEX.
WE FOUND THAT LAYERS 2, 3, 4,
5 AND 6 ARE VERY COMMONLY
DISRUPTED THOSE LAYERS ARE
TYPICALLY FORMED BETWEEN
ABOUT 19 WEEKS OF GESTATION
AND ABOUT 30 OR 30 WEEKS OF
GESTATION.
>> SO THAT'S WHAT I WAS
TRYING TO UNDERSTAND.
THIS IS-- THE CORTEX BEING
AN AREA THAT IS ON THE OUTER
SIDE, THE OUTER LINING OF
THE BRAIN, IF YOU WILL.
AND SO WHAT YOU FOUND, HOW
DO YOU KNOW THOUGH THAT
THESE OCCURRED EARLY IN
PREGNANCY OR RELATIVELY
EARLY?
IT'S KNOWN FROM OUR FROM
OTHER STUDIES THAT AS THE
BRAIN IS DEVELOPING FROM THE
SECOND TO THE THIRD
TRIMESTER THAT THE BRAIN
GOES FROM DISPLAYING A
SINGLE LAYER IN CORTEX THE
CORTEX IS THE GRAY MATTER.
SO PROBABLY WHEN YOUR MOTHER
ASKS YOU TO PAY ATTENTION
AND TO USE YOUR GRAY MATTER,
SHE WAS TALKING ABOUT THE
CORTEX WHERE BRAIN CELLS ARE
LOCATED.
THE CORTEX IS ONLY ABOUT 3
MILLIMETERS THICK.
IT'S PRETTY BIG SHEATH BUT
IT HAS SIX LAYERS.
EACH LAYER HAS SPECIFIC
TYPES OF CELLS.
EACH ONE OF THOSE CELLS DOES
A SPECIFIC TYPE OF
INFORMATION PROCESSION.
WE ALL HAVE THEY ALL HAVE TO
INTERACT WITH EACH OTHER.
CORTEX IS FORMED IN THE
SECOND TRIMESTER.
INITIALLY THERE IS A SINGLE
LAYER AND OTHER LAYERS AND
FINALLY BY THE THIRD
TRIMESTER THERE ARE SIX
LAYERS.
THROUGHOUT THAT PROCESSION
THERE ARE MARKERS THAT
INDICATE WHEN THOSE LAYERS
ARE FORMING, SO THERE IS A
PROGRESSION OF DEVELOPMENT
FROM NOT BEING DEFINED TO
BEING FULLY DEFINED WHERE
EACH CELL TYPE IS DEFINED BY
A GENETIC SIGNATURE.
WE EXAMINED THOSE GENETIC
SIGNATURES.
AND WHAT WE DISCOVERED WAS
THAT THERE WERE PLACES
WITHIN INN THE CORTEX WHERE
THOSE GENETIC SIGNATURES
WERE ABSENT SUGGESTING THAT
THIS PROGRESSION FROM BEING
UNDEFINED TO BEING DEFINED,
THOSE SEVERAL LAYERS AND
FINALLY SIX LAYERS, AT SOME
POINT FAILED TO TAKE PLACE.
>> Woodruff: AND WHAT YOU
CAN TELL FROM THIS ABOUT
WHAT THE CAUSE OR CAUSES
MIGHT BE?
>> WELL THERE ARE A NUMBER
OF DIFFERENT POSSIBILITIES.
ONE STUDY RECENTLY WOULD
SUGGEST THAT THERE'S A
POSSIBILITY GENETIC CAUSE
THAT COULD BE ACCOUNTING FOR
WHAT WE IDENTIFIED.
BUT THEN THERE'S ALSO THE
PONT THAT THERE COULD BE
ENVIRONMENTAL OR MATERNAL
INTRAUTERINE EVENTS THAT ARE
NOT GENETIC THAT MIGHT BE
INVOLVED.
SO THE NEXT STEP IN THE SORT
OF RESEARCH IS TO IDENTIFY
WHAT THE TRIGGERS ARE THAT
CAUSE THE FAILURE OF THE
NORMAL PROGRESSION OF
DEVELOPMENT OF THESE
SIX-- THE NORMAL DEVELOPMENT
OF THESE LAYERS OF
BRAIN-- OF THE CORTEX OF THE
BRAIN.
>> Woodruff: SO YOU'RE NOT
ABLE AT THIS POINT TO FARROW
IT DOWN.
YOU SAID EITHER GENETIC OR
ENVIRONMENTAL, COULD BE
EITHER ONE.
>> OR IT COULD BE A
COMBINATION.
>> Woodruff: IT COULD BE
THAT BOTH ARE REQUIRED.
BUT IT DOES NARROW DOWN TO A
VERY IMPORTANT POINT, WHICH
IS THAT THIS EVIDENCE POINTS
TO BRAIN MALL DEVELOPMENT IN
AUTISM BEGINNING IN
PREGNANCY, VERY LIKELY IN
THE SECOND AND THIRD
TRIMESTERS TO A PARTICULAR
IMPORTANT PART OF THE BRAIN,
THAT'S IMPORTANT FOR THE
KINDS OF SYMPTOMS THAT ARE
SEEN IN AUTISM IT NARROWS IT
DOWN TO A TYPE OF DEFECT
THAT IS COMMON ACROSS THE
CHILDREN, THE AUTISTIC
CHILDREN IN OUR STUDY.
IN FACT, 91% OF THE CHILDREN
IN OUR STUDY DISPLAYED THIS
DEFECT.
AND THAT'S VERY EXCITING AND
UNEXPECTED.
BECAUSE AUTISM IS A
CLINICALLY HETEROGENEOUS
DISORDER SO MANY WOULD HAVE
ASSUMED THAT THERE WOULD BE
LOTS OF DIFFERENT TYPES OF
DEFECT, NOT ONE COMMON TYPE
OF DEFECT SO WHAT WE FOUND
IS VERY INTERESTING BECAUSE
IT SUGGESTS THERE COULD BE A
COMMON UNDERLYING BIOLOGY
THAT IS THERE AT THE
BEGINNING.
SO A COMMON TIME, A
COMMONPLACE, A COMMON
UNDERLYING NEUROPATHOLOGY
THAT BEGINS THIS DISORDER
THAT WILL REALLY HELP THE
SEARCH FOR THE ORIGINAL
TRIGGERS THAT CAUSE AUTISM.
AND IT CHANGES THE DIRECTION
OF RESEARCH FROM POST NATAL
TO PRENATAL.
>> Woodruff: AND SO MY
QUESTION IS WHAT DOES IT
TELL YOU ABOUT PREVENTION IF
ANYTHING?
>> IT TELLS US WHAT STUDIES
TO DO TO DETERMINE, WHAT THE
TRIGGERS ARE, KNOWING WHAT
THE TRIGGERS ARE, WILL THEN
TELL, REVEAL WHAT PREVENTION
MIGHT BE POSSIBLE.
IT ALSO GIVES CLUES AS TO
WHAT MIGHT BE BIOMARKERS FOR
IDENTIFYING AUTISM AT VERY
YOUNG AGES, PERHAPS AS EARLY
AS AT THE AGE OF ONE TO TWO
YEARS.
SO THAT KIDS CAN BE
IDENTIFIED AT MUCH YOUNGER
AGES, BE REFERRED FOR
TREATMENT AT MUCH YOUNGER
AGES AND THEREBY HAVE A
BETTER OUTCOME.
>> Woodruff: WELL, THERE
IS-- IT'S FASCINATING
RESEARCH.
AND WE APPRECIATE YOUR
JOINING US, ERIC COURCHESNE,
THANK YOU.
>> WELL THANK YOU, IT WAS
GOOD TO BE HERE.
>> Ifill: WE TURN NOW TO THE
BUSINESS OF FINDING AND HIRING
FOREIGN NURSES FOR THE AMERICAN
HEALTH CARE SYSTEM.
THE DEMAND IS GREAT BUT, FOR
SOME, SO ARE THE RISKS.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
FRED DE SAM LAZARO REPORTS FROM
THE PHILIPPINES.
>> Reporter: EVERY FEW MINUTES
AT THIS MANILA NURSING SCHOOL, A
MANNEQUIN IS BORN.
STUDENTS ARE TRAINED ON A RANGE
OF CHILDBIRTH SCENARIOS,
SIMULATED ON ROBOTIC PATIENTS.
BUT REAL LIFE, WHETHER IN
OPERATING ROOMS OR THE JOB
MARKET THESE DAYS WILL BE FAR
TRICKIER.
NURSING HAS LONG BEEN A HIGHLY
SOUGHT-AFTER PROFESSION IN THE
PHILIPPINES-MAINLY BECAUSE IT IS
SEEN AS A TICKET TO A WELL-PAID
JOB OUTSIDE THE COUNTRY
>> MY AUNT ABROAD, SHE WAS THE
ONE WHO IS SENDING ME TO
COLLEGE.
SHE LIVES IN HONG KONG.
>> Reporter: SO, SHE ENCOURAGED
YOU TO BECOME A NURSE, WHY?
>> BECAUSE, ACCORDING TO HER,
BEING A NURSE IS A LOT OF
SALARY.
THEY EARN SO MUCH MONEY, SO SHE
>> Reporter: IF YOU WERE TO WORK
OVERSEAS, WHAT WOULD BE YOUR
FIRST CHOICE?
>> ANYWHERE IN THE UNITED
STATES, SIR.
>> Reporter: SHE WANTS TO FOLLOW
A PATH THAT HAS BROUGHT TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF NURSES FROM THE
PHILIPPINES, INDIA AND ELSEWHERE
TO THE U.S. OVER RECENT DECADES.
GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY
PROCESSOR PATRICIA PITTMAN SAYS
THEY'VE FILLED CRITICAL,
RECURRING NURSE SHORTAGES.
>> THE LAST MAJOR SHORTAGE OF
U.S. NURSES WAS BETWEEN 2000 AND
2008.
AT THE PEAK OF THAT SHORTAGE, WE
WERE RECRUITING ABOUT 20,000
NURSES A YEAR.
>> Reporter: THE RECESSION THAT
HIT IN 2008 BROUGHT MANY PART
TIME AND RETIRED AMERICAN NURSES
BACK INTO THE JOB MARKET.
THAT LEFT THEIR FILIPINO
COUNTERPARTS VYING FOR FEWER
JOBS AND VULNERABLE TO
UNSCRUPULOUS, EVEN FRAUDULENT
RECRUITERS.
>> I WAS A NURSE IN THE
PHILIPPINES AND I WAS BARELY
MAKING IT, I WAS MAKING AROUND
$100 A MONTH.
>> Reporter: FIVE YEARS AGO,
ANDREA SANTOS WAS SCOURING THE
INTERNET, LOOKING TO BETTER HER
CAREER PROSPECTS.
SHE BEGAN COMMUNICATING ONLINE
WITH A DENVER-BASED RECRUITER.
HE OFFERED HER A JOB, AND THE
SPONSORSHIP SHE REQUIRED TO
APPLY FOR A WORK VISA.
>> SO, I WAS SURPRISED AND VERY
THANKFUL.
>> Reporter: SINGLE AT THE TIME,
SANTOS LEFT HER INFANT DAUGHTER
BEHIND WITH HER FAMILY.
SHE ALSO BORROWED $6,500 FROM
A MORTGAGE SIZE SUM IN THE
PHILIPPINES.
THEM TO PAY HER WAY TO AMERICA,
>> HE ACTUALLY TOLD ME, OKAY, HE
WILL GIVE THE MONEY BACK TO ME,
YOU KNOW.
SO, THAT MADE ME INTERESTED.
>> Reporter: WHAT MADE YOU
BELIEVE HIM?
>> DESPERATION.
>> Reporter: ONCE IN DENVER, HER
NIGHTMARE BEGAN TO UNFOLD.
NOT ONLY DID HER RECRUITER, A
MAN NAMED KIZZY KALU, NOT REFUND
HER EXPENSES, HE TOOK 40% OF HER
SALARY.
IF SHE DARED QUESTION HIM,
SANTOS SAYS, KALU RESPONDED WITH
THREATS AND INTIMIDATION, SINCE
HER VISA DEPENDED ON BEING
EMPLOYED BY HIM.
>> IT'S MORE A PSYCHOLOGICAL
THREAT FOR ME THAT IF I DON'T DO
AS HE SAY, THEN I WILL FACE
DEPORTATION.
>> Reporter: KALU BEGAN USING
SANTOS' IMAGE ON HIS WEB SITE AS
A "SUCCESS STORY" TO ATTRACT
MORE RECRUITS.
>> I WAS ABLE TO SEE HER ON THE
INTERNET, YES.
I WAS LIKE, I THINK IF SHE CAN
DO IT, MAYBE I CAN ALSO DO IT.
>> Reporter: FOR NEWER RECRUITS
LIKE PENELOPE PILPA, KALU RAISED
HIS PRICE, WITH UP-FRONT FEES OF
UP TO $10,000.
HE PROMISED HER A UNIVERSITY
TEACHING JOB.
TURNS OUT THE UNIVERSITY DIDN'T
EVEN EXIST.
>> KIZZY WAS ALWAYS THREATENING
US TO, IF YOU GO OUT OF THIS
CONTRACT, WE'RE GOING TO DEPORT
YOU BACK TO THE PHILIPPINES AND
>> Reporter: EVENTUALLY, THE LAW
CAUGHT UP WITH KIZZY KALU,
HIMSELF AN IMMIGRANT FROM
NIGERIA.
LATE LAST YEAR, HE WAS CONVICTED
OF HUMAN TRAFFICKING AND
SENTENCED TO 11 YEARS IN PRISON
>> YOU'RE AGE 20, 25, AND YOU
ARE IN A FOREIGN COUNTRY.
YOU ARE TRULY DEPENDENT ON THE
INDIVIDUAL THAT HAS RECRUITED
YOU HERE.
AND, NOT HAVING A LOT OF
KNOWLEDGE, OR HAVE... HAVING
DONE LEGWORK IN WHAT IT ENTAILS
TO HAVE A CONTRACT, THEN THEY
ARE REALLY SO VULNERABLE.
>> Reporter: VICKY NAVARRO IS
WITH THE PHILIPPINE NURSES
ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA.
>> THESE NURSES ARE NOW HERE
DEPENDENT ON THE AGENCY TO
PROVIDE THEM WITH THE WORK, TO
PROVIDE THEM WITH A PLACE TO
LIVE EVEN.
AND... AND SO, AND THE VISA
ISSUE, AS WELL.
THEY ARE REAL... LITERALLY HELD
HOSTAGE BECAUSE OF THE VISA.
>> Reporter: VISAS TIE NURSES TO
THEIR EMPLOYERS.
HISTORICALLY, THESE WERE LARGE
HOSPITALS AND HEALTH CARE
SYSTEMS, BUT WITH GROWING
GOVERNMENT BACKLOGS IN
PROCESSING VISAS, THESE
PROVIDERS BEGAN TURNING MORE AND
MORE TO STAFFING AGENCIES, LIKE
THE ONE KALU PRETENDED TO RUN.
>> BECAUSE THE RECRUITMENT TAKES
A FAIRLY LONG TIME-- SEVERAL
YEARS-- IT'S HARD FOR THEM TO
PREDICT WHAT THEY'LL NEED WHEN
VISAS COME THROUGH.
WHEREAS A STAFFING AGENCY IN
THEORY CAN MOVE PEOPLE AROUND
ACCORDING TO WHAT THE DEMAND IS.
SO, THEY HAVE LESS RISK.
>> Reporter: EVEN WHEN THE
RECRUITER ISN'T A TRAFFICKER,
THE DEALS STILL CAN WORK TO THE
NURSES' DISADVANTAGE.
CONTRACTS OFTEN BIND NURSES TO
THEIR AGENCY FOR UP TO FOUR
YEARS, WITH PENALTIES REACHING
$60,000 IF THEY QUIT EARLIER.
MANY CONTRACTS HAVE OTHER
DAUNTING PROVISIONS.
>> RECRUITERS BASICALLY--
VERBALLY AND IN THE CONTRACT--
PREVENT THE CANDIDATE FROM...
FROM SHOWING THE CONTRACT TO
ANYONE ELSE.
THERE IS A WAIVER IN SOME
CONTRACTS THAT THEY WILL NOT
SEEK LEGAL RECOURSE.
>> Reporter: THESE PROVISIONS
ARE NEVER REQUIRED OF CANADIAN
OR EUROPEAN NURSES WHO COME TO
WORK IN THE U.S.
IN RECENT YEARS, SOME HOSPITAL
GROUPS, PHILIPPINE AND INDIAN
NURSING ASSOCIATIONS AND UNIONS
HAVE DRAWN UP A CODE OF CONDUCT
TO PROHIBIT SUCH PRACTICES, BUT
ONLY A FEW STAFFING AGENCIES
HAVE SIGNED ON.
MEANWHILE, IN THE PHILIPPINES, A
LARGE INDUSTRY-- SOME 300
NURSING SCHOOLS THAT MAINLY
TARGET THE AMERICAN MARKET-- IS
WAITING FOR A PICK UP IN HIRING.
HOW MANY OF YOU PLAN TO TAKE THE
NCLEX BOARD EXAM THAT WOULD
QUALIFY YOU TO WORK IN THE U.S?
THE LIFE THEY DREAM OF MAY WELL
RESEMBLE WHAT ANDREA SANTOS NOW
ENJOYS.
AS VICTIMS IN A TRAFFICKING
CASE, SHE AND OTHERS WHO WERE
SCAMMED BY KALU WERE ALLOWED TO
FIND NEW EMPLOYERS AND PERMANENT
SHE NOW WORKS FOR A LOS ANGELES
NURSING CARE SERVICE, IS
REUNITED WITH DAUGHTER ALYSSA
AND MARRIED TO AN IRAQ WAR
VETERAN.
PENELOPE PILPA ALSO HAS A GOOD
JOB IN A HOSPITAL.
>> THERE'S A LOT OF
OPPORTUNITIES, BUT YOU JUST NEED
TO BE VERY CAREFUL, ESPECIALLY
WITH A CONTRACT, BECAUSE
ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD THERE'S
ALWAYS BOGUS... OR THERE'S
ALWAYS PEOPLE WHO WANT TO... TO
MAKE MONEY OUT OF YOU.
AND THEY COULD BE LEGAL OR THEY
D BE ILLEGAL.
Reporter: BOTH LEGAL AND ILLEGAL
COULD INCREASE SIGNIFICANTLY,
STARTING IN ABOUT A YEAR.
AN IMPROVING ECONOMY AND AGING
POPULATION IN THE U.S. WILL
INCREASE THE NEED FOR NURSES AS,
QUITE POSSIBLY, WILL CHANGES
BROUGHT BY THE AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT.
EXPERTS SAY THE U.S. COULD BEGIN
TO SEE PRE-RECESSION LEVEL
SHORTAGEs AS EARLY AS 2018.
>> Woodruff: FRED'S REPORTING IS
A PARTNERSHIP WITH THE UNDER-
TOLD STORIES PROJECT AT SAINT
MARY'S UNIVERSITY IN MINNESOTA.
>> Ifill: NEXT TONIGHT, THE
SIMMERING DEBATE ABOUT WHO GETS
TO VOTE.
A FEDERAL JUDGE IN KANSAS LAST
WEEK ORDERED ELECTION OFFICIALS
TO HELP KANSAS AND ARIZONA
ENFORCE LAWS REQUIRING NEW
VOTERS TO SHOW PROOF OF
CITIZENSHIP.
AN APPEAL IS EXPECTED.
THOSE WHO SUPPORT IT SAYING IT
WILL PREVENT VOTER FRAUD AND
THOSE AGAINST SAYING IT WILL
DISENFRANCHISE MOSTLY MINORITY
VOTERS.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS MORE.
>> Sreenivasan: IF THIS ALL
SOUNDS FAMILIAR, THAT'S BECAUSE
CONTROVERSIAL VOTER
IDENTIFICATION LAWS HAVE BEEN
POPPING UP ALL OVER THE COUNTRY
AND WERE A BIG PART OF THE 2012
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.
IN ALL, A TOTAL OF 34 STATES
HAVE PASSED LAWS CALLING FOR
VOTERS TO SHOW SOME FORM OF I.D.
AT THE POLLS.
SO, WHAT ABOUT THE SPECIFICS OF
THIS CASE AND WHAT SUCH LAWS
MEAN FOR VOTERS AND THE VOTING
PROCESS?
WE EXPLORE THOSE QUESTIONS WITH:
KRIS KOBACH, THE SECRETARY OF
STATE IN KANSAS, WHO HAS BEEN
CALLED THE ARCHITECT OF THE
CITIZENSHIP REQUIREMENT; AND
JENNY ROSE FLANAGAN, THE
DIRECTOR OF VOTING AND ELECTIONS
FOR COMMON CAUSE, AND AN
OPPONENT OF THE LAW.
LET ME START WITH YOU, YOU
SELL BRATTED THIS RULING AS
MORE-- WHY IS A RULEAVE THE
LIKE THIS REQUIRING MORE
PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP
NECESSARY?
WELL, IT IS I RULE REQUIRING
PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP PERIOD.
IN MOST OF THE STATES IN THE
UNION, YOU SIMPLY JUST FILL
OUT THE REGISTRATION CARD,
CHECK A BOX SAYING I'M A
U.S. CITIZEN, SIGN IT AND
YOU'RE DONE.
BUT FOUR STATES INCLUDING
KANSAS AND ARIZONA HAVE SAID
NO, PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP,
DOCUMENTARY PROOF IS
NECESSARY BECAUSE SO MANY
ALIENS ARE ON OUR VOTER
ROLES.
WE HAVE FOUND THEM IN OUR
TWO STATES.
AND MOST OFTEN THEY'RE
MANIPULATED BY SOMEONE WHO
SAYS HEY, YOU CAN VOTE.
AND THEY'RE TRYING TO
GENERATE VOTES FOR A
PARTICULAR LOCAL CAN THE DA,
IN SOME CASE.
AND THEY DON'T EVEN KNOW
THEY'RE BREAKING THE LAW.
AND NOW WE HAVE A SAFEGUARD
TO INSURANCE THAT ONLY U.S.
CITIZENS ARE ON THE POLLS
AND YOU HAVE TO REMEMBER
THAT EVERY TIME A
NON-CITIZEN CASTS A VOTE IN
AN ELECTION THAT IS SFEKTIVELY
CANCELLING OUT THE VOTE OF A
U.S. CITIZEN.
>> WHAT ABOUT THAT IDEA?
IS ISN'T PREVENTING VOTER
FRAUD A NOBLE GOAL?
>> WELL, OF COURSE, NO ONE
WOULD LIKE TO SEE
NON-CITIZENS OR ANYONE WHO
IS NOT ELIGIBLE TO VOTE IN
OUR ELECTIONS.
BUT LET'S BE CLEAR HERE.
THERE'S SUCH A
DISPROPORTIONATE NUMBER.
MR. KOBACH IS TALKING ABOUT.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT AT LEAST
10,000 OR MORE ELIGIBLE
VOTERS IN KANSAS RIGHT NOW
ON A SUSPEND LIST BECAUSE OF
THIS LAW AND UPWARDS OF
30,000 IN ARIZONA BECAUSE OF
THESE LAWS.
SO YOU KNOW, YOU MAKE IT
SOUND SIMPLE AND FOR THOSE
OF US WHO HAVE THESE I.D.S
AND DOCUMENTEDS IT IS NOT A
PROBLEM.
BUT WE KNOW AT LEAST 10% OF
AMERICANS DONE HAVE THE
NECESSARY DOCUMENTATION.
AND THESE LAWS ARE KNOCKING
PEOPLE OUT OF OUR DEM SOC
SOCK-- DEMOCRACY.
>> KRIS KOBACH WA, ABOUT
THAT NOTION THAT THIS IS A
WAY TO DISENFRANCHISE MORE
VOTERS, PEOPLE WHO ARE
REGISTERED NOW WHO MIGHT NOT
HAVE HAD THAT PROOF OF
CITIZENSHIP ALREADY AREN'T
GOING TO BE ABLE TO CAST A
BALLOT.
>> WELL, I WANT TCT
ONE THING, NOBODY'S RIGHTS
HAVE BEEN SUSPENDED.
THE LAWS ONLY GO INTO EFFECT
PRO PESIVELY FOR NEWLY
REGISTERED VOTERS, PEOPLE
ALREADY REGISTERED WERE
GRANDFATHERED IN.
THE 10,000 PLUS PEOPLE SHE
IS REFERRING TO, NOBODY'S
RIGHTS WERE SUSPENDED.
THOSE ARE PEOPLE WHOSE
REGISTRATION IS INCLEAT.
OUR PLAUS ARE EASY, YOU CAN
FILL OUT YOUR REGISTRATION
CARD, SEND IT F IT WILL BE
PARTIALLY DONE.
YOU STILL HAVE TO PROVIDE
PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP BUT WE
BENT OVER BACKYARD TO MAKE
IT EASY SO YOU CAN E-MAIL IT
IN FROM HOME, EVEN TEXT IT
IN ONE OF OUR LARGEST
COUNTIES.
AND SO YOU CAN TAKE YOUR
TIME PROVIDING THE PROOF OF
CITIZENSHIP AND 83% OF THE
PEOPLE WHO STARTED THE
PROCESS SINCE OUR LAW WENT
INTO EFFECT HAVE ALREADY
PROVIDED THE PROOF OF
CITIZENSHIP, AGAIN BECAUSE
IT'S SOZZ EASY.
AND WE HAVE TO REMEMBER,
WE'RE STILL MANY MONTHS AWAY
FROM THE NOVEMBER 2014
ELECTION.
SO I EXPECT AS WE GET CLOSER
TO THE ELECTIONS MORE MUCH
THOSE PEOPLE WILL SAY YOU
KNOW WHAT I NEED TO FINISH
UP MY REGISTRATION BUT
NOBODY IS BEING PREVENTED
FROM VOTING.
THEY SIMPLY ARE TAKING THEIR
TIME AS OUR LAW ALLOWS THEM
TO DO.
>> MISS FLANAGAN DO WE HAVE
ANY PROOF THAT THIS ACTUALLY
EITHER DISCOURAGES OR
PREVENTS PEOPLE FROM VOTING?
>>.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
I MEAN TO ME THESE LAWS SEND
A MESSAGE TO VOTERS.
WE DON'T WANT YOU IF YOU
DON'T HAVE THE DOCUMENTARY
PROOF.
AND AGAIN WE KNOW THAT THERE
ARE THOUSANDS OF AMERICANS
WHO ARE ELIGIBLE VOTERS, WHO
JUST DON'T HAVE THESE
DOCUMENTS.
WE GIVE YOU A QUICK EXAMPLE
FROM A PROJECT WE KNOW OF IN
COLORADO, AN I.D. PROJECT
WHERE THEY WORK WITH
THOUSANDS OF CITIZENS WHO
ARE TRYING TO GET I.D.s TO
PARTICIPATE IN SOCIETY.
IT'S NOT THAT FOLKS DON'T
WANT THE DOCUMENTATION, BUT
SOMETIMES THEY JUST DON'T
HAVE IT.
AN EXAMPLE IS AN ELDER WOMAN,
THIS IMPACTS WOMEN GREATLY,
WHO WAS ADOPTED AND SHE
WANTED TO GET HER I.D.,
FOUND OUT THAT HER BIRTH
CERTIFICATE, SHE DIDN'T HAVE,
AND IN TRYING TO GET T THE
NAMES DIDN'T MATCH.
AND IN ORDER TO GET THESE
DOCUMENTATION SHE HAD TO
ENLIST THE HELP OF PRO BONO
LEGAL SUPPORT, IT TOOK OVER
A YEAR.
SO WE'RE TALKING ABOUT A
VERY COSTLY PROCESS, VERY
TIME INTENSIVE PROCESS.
AND SO WE KNOW THAT THERE
ARE MANY AMERICANS OUT THERE
WHO AREN'T GOING TO BE ABLE
TO MEET THESE HURDLES.
AND YES, THE MAJORITY, 80%
AS SECRETARY JUST SAID MAY
BE ABLE TO GET THIS PROOF.
BUT ESSENTIALLY IT'S NOT
THAT EASY.
AND AGAIN THE RESULTING
IMPACT ARE PEOPLE NOT GOING
TO BE ABLE TO PARTICIPATE IN
OUR DEMOCRACY, THAT'S JUST
UNAMERICAN.
>> MR. KOBACH, QUICKLY, THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUST TILS I
THINK THE LAST TIME THEY
LOOKED INTO IT BETWEEN 2000
AND 2005, OUT OF 197 MILLION
VOTES CAST THEY ONLY FOUND
40 INSTANCES OF CASES WHERE
PEOPLE WERE INDICTED FOR
VOTER FRAUD, IS THIS A BIG
ENOUGH PROBLEM FOR THE STATE
OF KANSAS OR OTHER STATES TO
BE USING TAXPAYER DOLLARS TO
GO THROUGH AND SAY ARE YOU
ON THE SUSPENDED LIST TO
OFFER MORE PROOF.
>>OL
IF YOU JUST LOOK AT
INDICTMENTS THEN ARE YOU
ONLY SEEING A VERY SMALL
PERCENTAGE OF THE PICTURE.
IF YOU LOOK AT ACTUAL CASE
OF REPORTED VOTER FRAUD
WHERE YOU HAVE LIKE A COUNTY
CLERK OR SOME OTHER
CORROBORATING INDIVIDUAL WHO
CAN SAY YEAH, THIS IS A
CREDIBLE REPORT, IT'S MUCH
HIGHER.
LOOK AT THE NUMBER OF ALIENS
IN OUR VOTER ROLES, IN
KANSAS WE PRESENTED TO THE
FEDERAL COURT 20 EXAMPLES
WHERE WE KNEW THEY WERE
ALIENS AND THEY GOT ON THE
VOTER ROLES, ARIZONA
PRESENTED ABOUT 200 CASE AND
THAT IS JUST THE TELEPHONE
OF THE ICEBERG BECAUSE THERE
IS NO EASY WAY TO LOOK AND
DETERMINE WITHOUT IS A
CITIZEN AND WHO IS NOT.
SO IT IS A SIGNIFICANT
PROBLEM.
AND ONE RESPONSE TO THE
EARLIER POINT BEING MADE IN
KANSAS OUR LAW DOES ALLOW
SOMEONE WHO DOESN'T HAVE ANY
PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP WHICH
WOULD USUALLY BE A BIRTH
CERTIFICATE OR PASSPORT T
DOES ALLOW SOMEONE STILL TO
PROVE THEIR CITIZENSHIP.
JUST THIS PAST MONDAY, WE
HAVE A STATE BOARD THAT
ALLOWS PEOPLE IN THAT VERY
RARE SITUATION TO
PREVENT-- PRESENT ANY
AFFIDAVITS OR OTHER EVIDENCE
THEY HAVE THAT INDICATES
T WORKS
VERY WELL IT DOESN'T REQUIRE
A LAWYER AND IT HAPPENS VERY
QUICKLY.
USUALLY TAKES ABOUT FIVE,
THERE IS A NOTICE PERIOD OF
FIVE DAYS AND THE BOARD
RULES.
AND SO IT'S WORKING REALLY
WELL IN KANSAS AND EQUALLY
WELL IN ARIZONA.
>> MR. KOBACH STAY WITH YOU
FOR A SECRETARY THERE WAS A
RECENT UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
STUDY THAT SHOWED HOW
MINORITIES WERE ACTUALLY
ASKED FOR VOTER I.D. FAR
MORE THAN WHITE YOUTH WERE I
SHOULD SAY WHITE YOUNG
VOTERS WERE.
IS THERE SOMETHING THAT YOU
CAN DO TO INOCULATE THAT
RESERVATION THAT THIS IS
ANOTHER HERDLE THAT WILL
DISENFRANCHISE SPECIFIC
GROUPS OF VOTERS?
>> OUR LAW DOES NOT ALLOW
POLL WORKERS OR ANYONE TO
NOT ASK ANYONE.
EVERYONE COME TOGETHER POLL,
I THINK NOW YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT PHOTO I.D..
EVERYONE COMING TO THE POLLS
HAS TO PRESENT PHOTO I.D.
AND EVERYONE REGISTERING TO
VOTE HAS TO PRESENT PROOF OF
CITIZENSHIP SO THERE CAN BE
NO DISCRIMINATION.
SOME OF THE ARGUE THAT I
HAVE SEEN ON THE OTHER SIDE
IS THEY CLAIM THAT MAYBE
PEOPLE OF A CERTAIN RACE OR
ETHNIC GROUP WILL BE LESS
LIKELY TO HAVE PROOF OF
CITIZENSHIP.
BUT AGAIN WE'VE SEEN NO
EVIDENCE OF THAT.
YOU KNOW, MOST PEOPLE REGARD
THEIR BIRTH CERTIFICATE AS A
PRETTY IMPORTANT DOCUMENT
AND IN KANSAS WE EVEN TOOK
THE EXTRA STEP OF PROVIDING
FREE BIRTH CERTIFICATES FOR
SOMEONE WHO LOST THEIRS.
WE'VE REALLY BENT OVER
BACKWARD TO MAKE SURE INWHO
IS A U.S. CITIZEN CAN
REGISTER.
BUT WE ALSO MADE IT HARD TO
CHEAT.
>> VERY BRIEFLY YOU'RE
PLANNING TO APPEAL?
>> WE ARE PLANNING TO
APPEAL.
BECAUSE AGAIN, HE MAKES IT
SEEM LIKE THIS IS VERY EASY
BUT WE KNOW THE FACTS ARE WE
ARE TALKING TO VOTERS WHO
ARE ON THE GROUND.
IT'S NOT AS EASY.
AND THIS IS REALLY IN
CONTRAST TO WHAT WE'RE
SEEING AROUND THE REST OF
THE NATION WHERE WE ARE
MAKING OUR VOTING MORE
ACCESSIBLE RATHER THAN
RESTRICTIVE.
>> THANK YOU BOTH FOR YOUR
TIME.
>> MY PLEASURE.
Woodruff: THIS YEAR'S RECIPIENT
OF ARCHITECTURE'S TOP AWARD, THE
PRITZKER PRIZE, HAS MADE HIS
NAME NOT WITH MONUMENTAL
BUILDINGS BUT WITH A
HUMANITARIAN FOCUS.
JEFF IS BACK WITH THAT.
>> Brown: MODEST SHELTERS FOR
RWANDAN REFUGEES, SUPPORTED BY
PAPER TUBES.
AN ELEMENTARY SCHOOL-- ITS
COLUMNS AND BEAMS ALSO MADE OF
PAPER-- BUILT TO REPLACE ONE OF
THE MANY LOST TO THE MASSIVE
EARTHQUAKE IN SOUTHWEST CHINA IN
2008.
A CARDBOARD CATHEDRAL IN
CHRISTCHURCH, NEW ZEALAND,
CONSTRUCTED AFTER THE
CONGREGATION'S OWN 19th CENTURY
HOME WAS DEVASTATED BY A 2011
EARTHQUAKE.
FOR 20 YEARS, JAPANESE ARCHITECT
SHIGERU BAN HAS DESIGNED
INNOVATIVE STRUCTURES FOR PEOPLE
SUFFERING FROM HARDSHIP AND
DISASTER.
AND FOR THAT, HE'S EARNED
ARCHITECTURE'S TOP HONOR, THIS
YEAR'S PRITZKER PRIZE.
FROM PARIS, WHERE HE KEEPS AN
OFFICE, BAN TOLD US TODAY OF WHY
HE BEGAN WORKING ON BUILDINGS IN
DISASTER AREAS.
>> AFTER I BECAME AN ARCHITECT,
I WAS VERY DISAPPOINTED ABOUT MY
PROFESSION AS ARCHITECT BECAUSE
WE ARE MOSTLY WORKING FOR
PRIVILEGED PEOPLE.
BUT I CAN USE MY EXPERIENCE AND
KNOWLEDGE MORE FOR GENERAL
PUBLIC OR EVEN FOR SOMEBODY WHO
LOST THEIR HOUSES BY NATURAL
DISASTER.
>> Brown: IN SELECTING THE 56-
YEAR-OLD BAN, THE PRITZKER JURY
WROTE:
INDEED, BAN HAS FOCUSED ON
STRUCTURES THAT ARE EASY TO
ASSEMBLE, MADE FROM CHEAP,
LIGHTWEIGHT MATERIALS LIKE PAPER
TUBES AND PLASTIC BEER CRATES
THAT DON'T REQUIRE HEAVY
MACHINERY.
HE SAYS WHEN HE BEGAN AS AN
ARCHITECT, HE COULDN'T AFFORD TO
PURCHASE WOOD FOR HIS DESIGNS,
SO HE BEGAN EXPERIMENTING WITH
PAPER TUBES.
>> THEN I KNEW THAT THE PAPER
TUBE WAS VERY STRONG, SO I
STARTED TESTING IT.
ACTUALLY, WHEN I STARTED
EXPERIMENTING, I STARTED
DEVELOPING WITH THIS STRUCTURE.
THAT IS WAY BEFORE PEOPLE START
TALKING ABOUT ENVIRONMENT AND
ECOLOGICAL PROBLEMS.
SO, I JUST HAVE AN INTEREST IN
USING THE HUMBLE MATERIAL AROUND
US AS A STRUCTURE OF THE
BUILDING.
>> Brown: AND OVER THE YEARS,
HE'S SHOWN THAT THESE HUMBLE
MATERIALS, ORIGINALLY CONCEIVED
AS TEMPORARY, CAN SOMETIMES
BECOME SOMETHING MORE, AS WITH A
PAPER CHURCH IN KOBE, JAPAN, AND
THESE SHELTERS HE BUILT
FOLLOWING THE 2011 TSUNAMI THAT
HAVE PROVEN SO POPULAR THAT
THEIR INHABITANTS DIDN'T WANT TO
LEAVE.
YOU'VE TALKED ABOUT THE IDEA OF
THE "TEMPORARY" VERSUS
"PERMANENT."
HOW DO YOU DEFINE THOSE IN YOUR
WORK?
>> WHETHER THE BUILDING IS
PERMANENT OR TEMPORARY IS NOT
DEPENDENT ON WHAT KIND OF
MATERIAL ITS MADE OF.
IT DEPENDS ON WHETHER PEOPLE CAN
LOVE THE BUILDING OR NOT.
THAT'S MY DEFINITION.
>> Brown: BAN HAS ALSO
UNDERTAKEN TRADITIONAL
COMMISSIONS FOR PRIVATE CLIENTS,
OFTEN CONTINUING HIS
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH.
LITE MUSEUMING ROOF OF HIS
IN METZ, FRANCE, WAS INSPIRED BY
A WOVEN BAMBOO HAT.
ELSEWHERE, IN WORKS LIKE THE
CURTAIN WALL HOUSE IN TOKYO, HE
LINKS THE INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR
WORLDS.
AND EVEN IN THIS WORK, HE AT
TIMES INCORPORATES RECYCLABLE
MATERIALS, SUCH AS WITH THIS
PAVILION IN HANOVER, GERMANY,
MADE WITH A CARDBOARD
LATTICEWORK AND A PAPER
MEMBRANE.
AND THE SO-CALLED NOMADIC MUSEUG
CONTAINERS.
SHIGERU STRESSES THAT HIS
PROFESSION NEEDS TO FIND A
BETTER BALANCE BETWEEN WHAT HE
SEES AS A FOCUS ON SERVING
PRIVILEGED SOCIETY WITH ONE
SERVING THOSE IN NEED.
>> BUT I'M NOT CRITICIZING, BUT
HE ROLE
OF ARCHITECTURE JUST A LITTLE
BIT WIDER, SOCIALLY, NOT ONLY
WORKING FOR RICH BUT ALSO
WORKING FOR GENERAL PUBLIC OR
EVEN THE PEOPLE LOST THEIR
HOUSES BY NATURAL DISASTER.
>> Brown: WELL, DO YOU SEE THE
FIELD CHANGING?
AND DO YOU FEEL YOUR PRIZE IS
PERHAPS SIGNALING SUCH A CHANGE?
>> YES, I FEEL THAT WAY.
WHEN I GIVE THE LECTURE ALL OVER
THE WORLD, NOW I HAVE STRONG
REACTION FROM YOUNG ARCHITECTS
OR YOUNG STUDENTS.
THEY ARE VERY INTERESTED IN WHAT
I'M DOING.
ALSO, MANY OF THE STUDENTS ALL
ASK TO JOIN MY TEAM WORKING
DISASTER AREA.
IT'S NEVER HAPPENED, MAYBE 20
YEARS AGO, BUT NOW MORE AND MORE
I ALWAYS SEE THAT THE YOUNGER
GENERATION, THEY ARE ALSO MORE
SOCIAL CONSCIOUS THAN BEFORE.
>> Brown: BAN WILL ACCEPT HIS
AWARD WITH A $100,000 GRANT IN
JUNE.
HIS NEXT MAJOR BUILDING, THE
ASPEN ART MUSEUM, IS SET TO OPEN
IN AUGUST.
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN SEE PHOTOS
OF SHIGERU BAN'S WORK ON OUR ART
BEAT PAGE.
THE MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS OF
THE DAY, AUTHORITIES IN
WASHINGTON S
DEATH TOLL IN THE MUDSLIDE
COMINGR WILL RISE
DAYS.
AND PRESIDENT OBAMA AND POPE
FRANCIS MET AT THE VATICAN.
THE PRESIDENT SAID THEY
MOSTLY DISCUSSED POVERTY AND
INEQUALITY.
THE VATICAN SAID THE FOCUS
WAS ON ISSUES SUCH AS
MANDATORY BIRTH CONTROL
COVERAGE UNDER THE HEALTH
CARE LAW.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, WHAT MAKES A
VIOLA WORTH $45 MILLION?
THAT'S THE STARTING BID PRICE
FOR A 300-YEAR-OLD STRADIVARIUS
THAT GOES UP FOR AUCTION THIS
SPRING.
WE TALKED TO A RENOWNED STRING-
INSTRUMENT MAKER ABOUT WHY THIS
ITEM IS SO VALUABLE.
THAT'S ON ART BEAT.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, PRESIDENT OBAMA
VISITS SAUDI ARABIA.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS, AMONG
OTHERS.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.